Our brothers and sisters in Brazil experienced an opportunity to make special efforts in
their preaching work when the Olympic and Paralympic Games were held there in August and
September of 2016.
Close to 15,000 athletes from approximately 205 countries were present along with many
visitors.
More than 1 million tourists were present at the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, and
among them were around 410,000 foreigners.
In an effort to teach these ones about the Bible, Jehovah's Witnesses engaged in a special
public witnessing campaign.
To reach as many people as possible, we set up 268 cards, not only were the games were
held, but also throughout the city of Rio de Janeiro.
That way, we were able to reach people from even far away islands like Vanuatu, which
is one of the islands of the Pacific.
Delegates from that island picked up publications from our witnessing cards.
We made efforts to put the stands and cards as close as possible to the places where the
brothers would work.
Thanks to Jehovah, we were able to get a strategic location near the entrance to the arenas,
which we didn't think would be possible.
We planned to have 1,500 volunteers, but we got 4,000 volunteers.
We asked for help from other cities, other states, and also from foreign language congregations.
So for us, this was beyond our expectations.
During the Olympics, more than 1 million people passed through the harbor here, and thanks
to Jehovah, we were able to set up more than 40 cards in the immediate harbor area and
placed almost 20,000 pieces of literature.
To refill the cards, we used a quadrucicle that picked up the publications at the support
hub and took them to the brothers' ethical cards.
The media provided extensive coverage with more than 26,000 press professionals involved,
and security was also reinforced with more than 22,000 military personnel.
The work of our brothers certainly did not go unnoticed.
We were at the cart when suddenly a police car full of officers stopped in front of us.
I was worried they were going to ask us questions or make us leave.
But then they got out of the car, came towards us, and one of them picked up the Bible Teach
book, and without saying anything to us told the others,
didn't I tell you I was going to find them here?
You can take these publications, they're free.
These books would teach you amazing things.
This campaign helped overcome prejudices, both with the authorities and people in general,
because they were able to see the international scope of our work.
And this became especially clear when it came to the officials because they allowed the
brothers to put the cards as close as possible to the arenas where the games were being held.
In all, more than 85,000 publications and more than 10 languages were distributed by
means of the 268 cards scattered throughout the city.
Over a year of planning went into preparing for this event and produced excellent results.
Our international preaching work was made known to thousands present at the Olympic Games,
and most importantly, it gave a great shout of praise to our God, Jehovah.